.TH VLOG2VBE 1 "June 2026" "Alliance" "Alliance User Commands"
.SH NAME
vlog2vbe \- translate a synthesizable Verilog subset to Alliance VBE
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B vlog2vbe
[\-o output.vbe] [\-top module] file.v [module]
.br
.B vlog2vbe
\-V
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B vlog2vbe
is a first-stage Verilog input front-end for the Alliance synthesis flow.
It parses a small synthesizable Verilog subset and writes an Alliance
behavioral
.B .vbe
file that can be processed by existing tools such as
.BR boom ,
.BR boog ,
and
.BR loon .
.SH SUPPORTED SUBSET
The first version supports one or more modules per file, ANSI and non-ANSI port
declarations, scalar and packed vector input/output/inout/wire/reg
declarations, continuous assignments, simple module instances with named or
positional port connections, hierarchy flattening into the selected top module,
combinational always @* / always @(*) blocks with blocking assignments, if/else
and case/default statements, edge-triggered always blocks with blocking or
nonblocking assignments, and a common single asynchronous reset template,
constants, bit-selects, part-selects, concatenation, bitwise/logical Boolean
operators, equality operators, and the conditional operator.
.PP
Parameters, generate blocks, delays, arithmetic, multiple asynchronous resets
in one always block, four-state constants containing x or z, parameterized
instances, and output ports connected to non-assignable expressions are
intentionally rejected in this version.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
vlog2vbe simple_and.v simple_and
boom simple_and simple_and_o
boog simple_and_o simple_and_g
loon simple_and_g simple_and_l
.fi
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-o output.vbe
Write the generated VBE to the selected path.  The default is
module_name.vbe.
.TP
.B \-top module
Select the top module.  If omitted, a single-module design is used directly;
for multi-module input, the tool infers the unique module that is not
instantiated by another module.
.TP
.B \-V
Print the tool version.
